.TH BONGOCAT 1 "February 2026" "v1.4.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bongocat \- Bongo Cat Wayland Overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bongocat
[OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bongocat
is a lightweight, highly customizable Bongo Cat overlay for Wayland compositors. It displays an animated cat that reacts to your keyboard input in real-time. Features include multi-monitor support, hot-reloadable configuration, and fullscreen auto-hiding.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " \fIFILE\fR"
Specify the configuration file path. If not provided, \fBbongocat\fR searches for \fBbongocat.conf\fR in:
.RS
.IP 1. 3
\fIXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR/bongocat/bongocat.conf
.IP 2. 3
$HOME/.config/bongocat/bongocat.conf
.IP 3. 3
./bongocat.conf
.RE
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-monitor " \fINAME\fR"
Force the overlay to display on a specific monitor output (e.g., HDMI-A-1). Overrides the \fBmonitor\fR setting in the configuration file.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-watch-config
Watch the configuration file for changes and automatically reload without restarting (uses inotify).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-toggle
Send a signal (SIGUSR1) to a running bongocat instance to toggle its visibility on/off. If no instance is running, this starts a new one.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display this help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The default configuration file location is \fB~/.config/bongocat/bongocat.conf\fR.
.PP
.B Key Configuration Options:
.TP
.B monitor
Set to one or more output names (e.g., \fBeDP-1\fR or \fBeDP-1,HDMI-A-1\fR). A comma-separated list launches one instance per listed monitor.
.TP
.B keyboard_device
Path to the input device (e.g., \fB/dev/input/event4\fR). Use \fBbongocat-find-devices\fR to locate yours.
.TP
.B enable_debug
Set to \fB1\fR to enable debug logging. \fBWARNING: This logs all keystrokes to stdout/stderr. Keep disabled (0) for privacy.\fR

.SH PRIVACY NOTICE
By default, debug logging is disabled (\fBenable_debug=0\fR). Taking care not to enable this in production environments is crucial as it logs raw input events.

.SH AUTHOR
Maintained by Saatvik Sharma.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bongocat-find-devices (1)
